 Hello everyone. Welcome. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning everyone. Good morning. Just give everyone a minute to join here. Okay. Okay. Hello. Those who just joining, we're going to give everyone a minute to join and we're going to jump right into it as we've only said what half an hour for this meeting so Get ready. Let's see what time it is here. A bit more for a few to join. Okay. I think we're at that time. I think we get started now. Yeah, let's let's get into it. Okay. So welcome everyone. For those who don't know me, my name is Luca. I'm the team lead of the systems operator team in the sub team in the department of the operations department and our teams, my team main function is to manage the ITOP's ticketing system. And that's why we're here today. We're going to demo the service management replacement tool for ITOP's. So before I get started, heads up, feel free to ask any questions along the way. I also have a team member here with me to help gather any questions you want to ask in the chat as well. And just be aware, we'll be doing a demo at the end too so you can ask questions in real time of going through a ticket. And for those of you who've joined a session previously, one of the longer ones, this is focused on approvals from the lead and manager perspective. We're going to touch on a few of the, we're going to touch on a few of the other elements, but it's going to focus more so on the approval stuff. So you will see some the same things from the previous meeting, but mostly approvals. Okay, 54, I'm going to share my screen and I'll begin the recording as well. I just double check here. Do I have a new from my team here today? Yes, look. Fantastic. Thanks, Newt. Okay, I'm going to stop sharing my camera and record the video. Okay, let's get started. Welcome again everyone to the JIRA Service Management Training course. Today's outline, we're going to be navigating the JIRA Service Management interface. We're going to be working with requests, managing tickets, then we're going to jump into the big part which is approvals, then we'll go into a demo and then answering questions after that as well. Okay, what is JIRA Service Management? JSM is a plugin built on top of JIRA with additional service task features. If you're not familiar with JIRA, don't worry. The one main purpose of this tool was to bring this in to help bridge that gap to help make it easier for you to manage their tickets and submit tickets and all that and approve tickets and all that great stuff. So you can query a JSM project the same way you can query other products in JIRA. So if you are familiar with JIRA, that hasn't changed. But only JSM projects will be able to utilize the Help Center and the JSM features. Again, this session will provide an overview of the JSM tool with a focus on approvals and approving tickets from a lead and manager perspective. Okay, navigating the JIRA Service Management interface. Overview of the Help Center and Team Portal. So if you look on the right side here, this is an image of the Help Center Portal main landing page in JSM. A few key elements here. Number one, you can search for request type in all JSM projects on this Help Center. Number two, you can set the Team Portal, a specific service desk, and navigate their requests through there as well. I should ask everyone to check that they're muted. Thank you. Number three, you can view recently searched request types as in the bottom and that'll populate as you use the tool. And the top right is where you can manage your requests and approvals, which we'll go into deeper in the slides ahead. Each Team Portal is built to purpose and can be considered a separate service desk. And please note, JSM Portal projects are different from JIRA projects. You will not see a JIRA project that has not built their own JSM Portal. Alright, exploring Team Portals. So Team Portals are projects for a specific team that has configured their own instance in JSM. Here you'll see a few different portals on the Help Center already, with possibly more to come in the future. Each Team Portal will have their own search bar, which will only return request types in that project. And you're also able to navigate the logical groupings and each request type in each grouping. So if you look at the right side here, you'll see an example of the OBS Portal. There's a search bar there, the groupings on the left side, and then you can select the actual request type on the right side of the groupings. Okay, working with requests. So you can select your, sorry, how to submit a work request or issue or service request. You can select your desired request type from your search results or by navigating to the Project Teams Portal. In this case here, I've just here for Java and that's the only one that pops up, so you can select that. Once you do, it'll be presented with a custom form that is built for that request type. These forms have different key fields, but a few consistent ones across the board are these here. First off is the due date that is still there. You can still set the desired due date for your request. Please note, not every ticket can be due within one or two days. Do your best to plan ahead and submit a ticket with ample time for the ticket to be assessed, approved, and completed. That said, there is a new field called justification. So if you set a ticket with the due date of the same day, you will be required to justify the urgency of your ticket. But when you do that, that ticket will be submitted as a blocker and will be assessed accordingly. And then the Usernames field, which is at the bottom of the image there. This will be used to submit a ticket for multiple users. So an example here is that you're submitting a Zoom license request. As a team lead, you can put all your team members in that ticket and the functionality of this field will request approvals from all those users managers and anything else required in the workflow as well. I'm going to go over that field a bit more in some future slides too. Managing tickets. How to view tickets and related content. So like I mentioned, the Help Center landing page is where you want to be. It is the one-stop shop to view, submit tickets, view approvals, all that great stuff. On the top right, you can see the request button. Once you click that, you're given three options. You can view your approvals, my requests, and all requests. These options will help you navigate and manage all your open requests and approvals. When you click on that my request button, you're brought to this page. You can navigate all of your requests by modifying the requests or looking for certain request statuses, who is created by the request types, or you can search for that ticket using any keyword or ticket number in that red search bar there. And keep in mind, you can modify the information to search for closed requests as well. Okay. Viewing and understanding your tickets. So this is an image on the right here of a submitted ticket, and here are a few key elements that ticket should be aware of. In red at the top is the ticket number, a unique ticket identifier. On the very bottom in green is the form or the custom form for each request type. So when you submit a request type, you'll enter information, that info will be included into that form, and it'll be attached there at the bottom. In blue is the activity tab, and inside the activity tab you'll see comments and workflow changes that will appear here, and anything else that will, that has happened to your ticket will appear in the activity tab as well. On the top right in orange is a notifications button, you can toggle that on and off, and below that in pink is the share button. If you submitted the ticket, you can share that ticket with anybody you want, and it gives that person permission to act on the ticket as they would any other ticket. Okay, the reason we're here, approvals. Understanding approvals from an end user. So if you submit a ticket, you are an end user. So everyone at Jira could be an end user at some point in time. Unlike current Jira, there was a built-in approval functionality in JSM. Users can view pending approvals in the Help Center under the requests and approvals section, and approvals can be requested from different users and groups depending on the type of request. And lastly, the service desk team will determine whether or not approvals are needed for your request. So that's the same as it is now. You don't need to worry who needs to approve a ticket, the service desk team, so Triage, T-Soc, Triage will determine that and request it in the ticket on your behalf. Okay, your tickets approval status. When a ticket is sitting in approval status, you'll see the status of the ticket on the top right, that is where you'll see status for your ticket throughout the whole lifecycle of the ticket. But on the bottom right is the specific approval status of this ticket. It's a bit different. You'll see the approval status plus who it's pending for in the approvals that the person's name will be there, you can't see it right now, and how many approvals are needed to push the ticket forward. So keep an eye out for that when you are opening a ticket and viewing the content. There are a few different approval statuses. One thing to note, that approval status I mentioned, it'll only show when the current pending approval is required. After a decision is made, the info is recorded in the activity tab and it will disappear from the right side. So keep an eye out for that and keep an eye out on the activity tab for any updates on the ticket. Okay, depending on the request, you'll see any of the following approval, any of the following approval statuses or stages. Pending manager approval. This means the ticket is waiting for all listed managers to approve. Multiple managers may be required if there are multiple users listed in the user names field that I mentioned earlier, and I'll go over that in a bit more detail in the next slide as well. Very similar. The ticket is waiting for all listed users to approve, but it won't be the user's manager, or it likely won't be. An example for a special approver would be if we need approvals for whoever owns a T-Drive folder to grant access to somebody else, or an environment owner, we can ask for their approvals there as well. I do want to make a note about these two approval statuses. You will likely be called upon for any one of these two, so be aware that if you're approving from a manager perspective, it is for your team members. If it's a special approval, it's likely something you own or something someone's coming to you to get approvals for. And lastly is the pending CISOC approval. This is a bit different. The ticket is waiting for any one member of the CISOC approvers group to approve. There will be about three or four members in this group, and any one of them can approve it to push your ticket along to the next status. Okay, like I mentioned, the usernames field. Let's try and go through that a little bit. This field has a list of users who the request is for. The main purpose of this field is to help gather manager approvals from one or more users. And the users listed in this field will have their managers tagged for approval in the ticket. So, if you look on the right side here, you can see the usernames on the bottom. I submitted this ticket, so I'm the reporter of that ticket. So, an important note to take here is if the usernames field is populated, it will override the reporter field. This means that if approvals are requested for the user manager, it will pull the manager of the user from the usernames field, not the reporter field. So, if that usernames field at the bottom was empty and approval is required, it will ask for approval from the reporter of the ticket. If it's populated, then it will go for the managers of the people in that usernames field. In this case here, you can see I put my own name in there because I do need access to this particular ticket and so do my team members. So, what will happen here is you will see a requested approval from me, from my team members, and also my manager as well. That's a lot to talk about in the moment, so I'll go over that a bit more in the demo as well. Okay, I'm sending approvals as lead and managers. So, on the left side here, you can see that again, you can go to the landing page, you can click the top right request button, and you click the approvals button to view all pending approvals. Approval is pending your approval. When you click that, you're brought here, you can view pending approvals and you can also modify the filters to view any past approvals as well. Once you click on that ticket, you're brought to this view. This is a similar ticket view in the help center I showed you earlier with a new field. You can approve the ticket from the ticket itself, obviously. No need to wait for an email. You can view all pending approvals from the help center at any time. From here, you can view the ticket content before you approve or decline the request. You can get a full idea of what's being asked of you in this ticket. Again, that section that's called your approval in the image, that'll pop up when your approval is required in the ticket and disappear once you've clicked the button. And I mentioned approving via email. So you will also receive an email from JSM whenever your approval is required. Be aware, the email is very similar to other JIRA emails, so if you are already filtering your JIRA emails, this will likely get caught up in that filter. So we do advise and recommend that you have a look at these emails and set up a new rule in your outlook to filter them separately. If you need help with that, reach out. We're building a document to help make sense of that. And if you're looking for a keyword to use, awaiting approval is a key one that's used in most of the emails. Okay, so you'll see a bunch of key information in this email here as well. Number one, these are names field. It will tell you who the request is for. You can't see it here. I've waited it out, but that's where the name will show up. You can approve or decline the ticket from this request directly from the email. That will open up a confirmation page in the web browser, but you can do it from the email. Number three here is just some more information in the email about the ticket. Number four is you can actually view the request in the Help Center by clicking here. And number five, you can turn off any feature notifications for this request from the email directly. And one thing to note, you'll see it now and you'll see it in the future as well. This email shows the information pasted twice here. That is simply a bug in JSM's side of things. We asked why it happens. Apparently, if you use certain automation, it will just pop up with the email twice with the same information. So all the buttons still work as expected and the information is exactly the same. It's just posted twice there. So be aware of that. OK, and that's it for the slides. I'm going to pop into a quick demo. OK. And feel free to keep putting your questions in the chat or just jump in now and ask away if you have any any questions or concerns. This is the Help Center I was talking about. On the top right, you can view your requests. These are the team portals you can click on and navigate if you choose and the bottom are recently selected requests. In this case here, I'm going to search for the keyword for Zoom and select that request type to submit a ticket. You can see here that your name will default to the raise this request on behalf of this will make you the reporter of the ticket unless you doesn't make you the reporter of the ticket. And I'll show you how that works together with the user names field. On the due date here, if you put it same day, you can see that the justify urge to field pops up. I'm going to put it a little further out for now to avoid the blocker ticket. And I'm going to put my user names here and ask you for the names of users who need the Zoom license. In this case here, I'm going to put my two team members and you'll see how it requests approvals from myself. Once you filled in the rest of the information or the required information here, you can submit the ticket. Once you create that request, you will see this appear in the Help Center. This is your ticket view in the Help Center. Here are the few key elements I mentioned. The summary ticket number, you can act on the ticket here. This is your form you submitted the information you've put in there as well. And what I'm going to do now is I'm going to open the ticket as an agent or essentially as the triage person would view the ticket. But I'm going to have it on the back end because this is what the triage will be doing. We'll be pushing your ticket along and making sure it gets the right approvals, all that great stuff. And I'm going to request manager approvals from the user names in this ticket. So you'll see here that I created this ticket, but the user names that I'm raising this ticket for are Anoop and Meninder. And you can see when I refresh the page, I've requested manager approval and it's not asking for my manager. It is asking for their manager. So just be aware of how that works. So you'll see that here on the bottom right, the approvals status will be pending manager approval, one approval needed and it'll be my name. If you had multiple members from different teams in that user names field, it would show multiple managers here. I don't want to bug anybody else right now, but it will populate here with multiple manager approvals required. If you go above here as well, there's the pending manager approval status, which is also just the status, the current status of the ticket. And most importantly, the approve button here as well. You can approve or decline that request. In this case here, I'm going to approve it. You can see what happens in the ticket. So that approval status on the bottom right now, or the right side has disappeared, is now waiting for support. And you can see in the activity tab, everything that's happened up to this point as well. Approval acquired, approved by Luca, waiting for support. OK, so that is a basic flow of spending a ticket and getting approvals for it. And also, I want to show you that when approvals are requested for myself, I would have gotten an email similar to this. I'm still waiting on the other email, so I'm not going to show you that exact email, but this is how it would look. Again, info is listed here twice, but that's just a bug. And you can click all the buttons here by approving, declining, request, all that great stuff. And you can see who is for here as well. If you can't decide or figure out what the request is for, you can, of course, click on that view request button and it'll bring you to the portal and directly to that ticket that you've seen here. And if you have tickets pending your approval, which I will show you here once more, you can, of course, navigate to that approvals section. So you can see that the ticket again is pending my approvals. If you go in the top right, you will see that there is now one ticket pending my approval. So you don't need to wait for the email. You can come to your help center every day and just see what's pending your approval and click that here and approve that ticket once more. Okay, I think that's all I wanted to cover for today. Do we have any questions? Hey, Luca, just a quick question. This is Manning from probation. I wanted to confirm if this is only for ops and CSOC tickets, right? So no troubleshooting tickets will need to go through this? That's correct. It's just ops and CSOC for now. Okay, so if there's a situation where a troubleshooting ticket requires CSOC approval, will that still be the same process where we just tag in CSOC and they act on it? What do you mean by troubleshooting tickets? Is that a different project? So say when we are doing like an external delivery setup and there's some firewall changes needed on the real estate side, so a couple of people need to provide approval for that. So that kind of falls under our setup troubleshooting process, but we do need input from CSOC on that. Okay, yeah, if it's not an ops or stock ticket, you will need to gather approvals the old way, which is through the comments. Okay, that's perfect. Thank you very much. Okay, no problem. And heads up as well, this system is now live. We fired off a few emails and shared a few links, but the ITOP system is still operational. We are highly encouraging you to use this new system as the ITOP system will be shut down, I would believe, early February, but more info on that will come out next year. Great. Thanks, Manning. Any other questions? Yeah, when you go into JIRA, is there a way to navigate to the Help Center or do we have to bookmark it separately? So right now, there's a beautiful yellow banner at the top here where you can click. I'm assuming that's going to go away though. It will, yeah. So you could bookmark it, yes. If you want to, you can go into projects. And I'm not 100% sure what you'll see, but if you look for the ops project, you should be a link to the service desk on the left navigation here. This little plus raise a request should bring you right to that. And that's the landing page, the home page thing there that's, it's not something you navigate to. Sorry, say again? That this landing page here is not something you can navigate to, you have to bookmark it. I believe so. You know what? I'll double check on that. I'll take that back and let you know. Okay. Cool. Great questions. Anything else? Yeah, Luca, I have a ticket that someone's just asked me to approve, but I don't see it as something I can approve when I'm in the Help Center. Okay. So I don't understand. This is an ops ticket, ops 1017. Okay. And there's a comment. Oh, I see. This is the reporter made this comment. I don't know. That's weird. Interesting to look. So ops did not set this as something that requires my approval. That's why it's not showing up. Let's see here. Can I view it? I can too. Okay. So yeah. Okay. So right now, it looks like the Vamshi asked for approvals here, but the ticket hasn't been moved into or requested for approval. So I was probably just submitted today. Yeah. Five minutes ago. Okay. So I can't expect to see it in my approvals. Yep. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it. No problem. No problem. Great question. Any more? Okay. All right. Minder and Newt, anything you think we should add before we call it a meeting? No, I just wanted to answer that question regarding navigating to Jira. I think everybody can, you know, search for it.